I saw a video the other day. It was sent
to me by a bunch of X3 fans and the
title of the video was, "You can't get
big with bands." And they expected me to
be offended. Respond to them and I said,
"Yeah, this this video is correct. Bands
suck." And they were like, "But what
about X3?" Well,
X3 uses bands so that we load the bottom
of the exercise and hyper load the top.
So, we have more access to more
musculature at the top. We first exhaust
at the top. So, you're doing repetitions
and you go, you never go to lockout, but
you go close to lockout. So, you want
120° angle between upper and lower arm.
You're going to do however many
repetitions you can do until you can't
get there anymore, and then you just go
as far as you can. Now, if you did this
trying to do like a push-up, like you
just throw a band around your back and
you try to press away from yourself,
you'd end up twisting your joints, you
wouldn't get to muscular stimulus or
even fatigue at all because you'd have
to stop because of the pain. So, that's
a process called neural inhibition. Um,
so bands by
themselves, not even worth training
with. Like, if all you have access to is
bands, don't even work out with them.
Uh, I'd rather you lift weights. And I
wrote the book weightlifting is a waste
of time. That's not very effective
either, but it's better than the joint
damage you're going to receive from
trying to train just with bands. If you
have the rest of the apparatus, the bar
that keeps your wrist neutral as you're
pushing and pulling. That's key. And
then also the platform that the banding
runs underneath that the X3 has. That's
super important, too. Cuz if you stand
on a band and let's say you're trying to
do a deadlift, keep in mind it only
takes 7 lb of lateral force to break the
human ankle. Well, when I use X3, I'm
deadlifting 700 lb. So, what do you
think that's going to do? If I just step
on the band and try and put 700 lateral
lb through my ankle joint, lateral means
this way, not this way. I'd probably
break an ankle or both. So, uh, now the
good news is your central nervous system
will just protect you. So, if you try
and do that, you just won't be able to.
Like your central nervous system through
a process called neural inhibition will
just shut you down. So, bands by
themselves totally suck. X3 made bands
very usable, very portable, and the most
important thing. And I know a lot of
people think I don't agree with this
whole like stretch range of motion or
lengthened range of motion. That's the
only place muscle stimulus ever took
place. Like it's not that that range of
motion is special. It's that you have
less muscle capable of firing in those
positions. So that's where you go to
fatigue. That's where you show the
central nervous system, hey, we don't
have enough muscle here and we got to
add more. So, you never want to not load
the bottom. You have to load the bottom.
And it takes other equipment to do that.
A band by itself, you'll fail every
time.